## DVC Get Started with Experiments

This project is a showcase for [`dvc exp`](https://dvc.org/doc/start/experiments)
commands to manage large number of experiments.  It trains a CNN on [Fashion
MNIST](https://github.com/zalandoresearch/fashion-mnist) dataset in Tensorflow.

<details>

<summary>
### Installation Instructions
</summary>

After [installing DVC](https://dvc.org/doc/install) and cloning the repository, you can run:

```console
virtualenv .venv
. .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Retrieve all the required data and model files:

```console
dvc pull
```

</details>

## Running Experiments

You can run the experiment defined in the project.

```console
dvc exp run
```

This new command in DVC 2.0 also allows to change the parameters on the fly with `--set-param` option. 

```console
dvc exp run --set-param model.conv_units=128 
```

`params.yaml` defines two parameters to modify with `dvc exp run
--set-param/-S` option. The above command updates `params.yaml` with
`conv_units: 128` before running the experiment. 

The experiment will produce `metrics.json` along with a `models/model.h5`.

You can check the changes in metrics:

```console
dvc exp diff
```

It's also possible to queue experiments with `--queue` option and run them all
in a single batch with `--run-all`.

```console
dvc exp run --queue -S model.conv_units=32
dvc exp run --queue -S model.conv_units=64
dvc exp run --queue -S model.conv_units=96
```

The queued experiments can be run in parallel with `--jobs`.

```console
dvc exp run --run-all --jobs 2
```

You can get the summary of experiments with: 

```console
dvc exp show
```

Limit the parameters and metrics to show with `--include-params` and
`--include-metrics` options, respectively.  

By default experiments are given auto-generated names derived from their inputs
and environment. It may be easier to review them when you give names with the
`--name/-n` option.

```console
dvc exp run -n my-baseline-experiment
```

Artifacts produced by experiments are normally not checked out to the repository.
If you want to do so, you can use:

```console
dvc exp apply exp-123456
```

where `exp-123456` is the experiment ID you see with `dvc exp show`. 

Then, you can use DVC and Git commands on the artifacts and code as usual. 

You can push and pull the _code changes_ related to an experiment with `dvc exp
push` and `dvc exp pull` respectively. These two commands work with _Git
remotes_ and [DVC remotes](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/remote)
together. Changes in the text files tracked by Git are transferred from/to Git
repositories, and binary tracked by DVC are transferred from/to DVC remotes. 

You can clean up the unused experiments with:

```console
dvc exp gc --workspace
```

### Parameters

There are two parameters in the project. They are set in `params.yaml`. `models.conv_units` defines the number of convolutional units in the model, and `train.epochs` sets the number of epochs to train the model. 

```yaml
train:
  - epochs: 1
model:
  - conv_units: 16
```

You can select these parameters in `dvc exp show` with `--include-params`.

### Metrics

There are two metrics produced by the training stage. 

- `loss`: Categorical Crosstentropy loss value 
- `acc`: Categorical Accuracy metrics for the classes.

You can select these metrics in `dvc exp show` with `--include-metrics`. 

### Data Files

The data files used in the project are found in `data/images`. All of these
files are tracked by DVC and should be retrieved using `dvc pull` from the
configured remote.

## Contributing

This repository is generated by
[`example-repos-dev`](https://github.com/iterative/example-repos-dev). For Pull
Requests regarding the fixes, please use that repository. 
